                                                    Project: Diwali Sales Analysis
OverView :

This project analyzes diwali sales data from e-commerce website to identify sales trends,patterns,Highest selling product category and products , customer choices, highest sales states in India and customer age group.

Pre-Requisites : 

•	Python3  

•	Pandas and Numpy

•	Matplotlib

•	Seaborn

Data:

Diwali sales data.csv data contains information on product category,products,age-group,occupation,States in India  etc.

Analysis :

The analysis script (Diwali_Sales_Analysis.ipynb) uses pandas for data manipulation and transformation, Seaborn for  Visualization and Exploratory data analysis.

Result :

This project reveals the below insights 

•	Highest sales are generated by the married women age group of 26-35 with the ratio of 7:3 (female:male ratio).

•	Highest Orders/sales  or amount is generated from the states of Uttarpradesh,Maharashtra,Karnataka,Delhi,Madhyapradesh.

•	Most of the customers are from   IT,HealthCare,Aviation,Banking,Govt  Occupation employees.

•	Highest Selling product categories are Food,Clothing&Apparel,Footwear,Electronics etc.

Total_Summary:

Married women of age group 26-35 years from the states Uttarpradesh,Maharashtra, Karnataka and Madhya pradesh, from the occupants of IT,HealthCare,Aviation,Banking employees are more likely to buy products from Food,Clothing&Apparel,Footwear and Electronics Category.
Future work :
Future work may involves incorporating more data sources,implementing  predictive models,sales forecasting and creating interactive dashboard for real time insights.

Contributors:

•	Guntur Gopinadh  

License  : 

This project is licensed under GrowDataSkills Organization license.

Contact :

For question’s or feedback contact gopinadh321@gmail.com









